# Final Project Individual Self-Assessment

## Self-Assessment

During the course of the team's final project, my primary responsibility was creating the database for our project. Once our team finalized the topic of our project, we gathered a large dataset that required cleaning. One of the difficulties I encountered in working in a team setting was having the team provide input on what exactly they wanted included in the database, in terms of what they specifically wanted to analyze. Because our dataset was so large, I needed team members’ input on what they agreed was relevant. One challenge I encountered was improving my assertiveness. My team members changed the requirements they wanted in the database three different times, so I had to go back and modify it each time. During the third time of changing the database, I insisted the team take a moment and go through our dataset and determine what was relevant to our questions. Insisting on my team members clarifying what they needed from me was hard because I am not an assertive person, but I realized I was becoming frustrated with them and concise communication would resolve this issue, which it did. Once we clearly communicated needs and expectations, I was able to provide the database they needed for the dashboard and machine learning model.

While our team agreed to break up the roles for the project, we did a good job at helping one another as needed. When the individual responsible for creating the machine learning model needed help on which direction to go in, we discussed as a group what made the most sense for our focus. I continually updated the readme section of our project's github by proofing other team member's additions for spelling and grammatical errors. I also helped the team member working on our dashboard with ideas for visualizations that would be interesting to the audience. Overall, our team worked well together-when something needed to be done, we all took turns stepping up and doing whatever it was that needed completion. 

## Project and Team Summary

Our final project's intent was to understand traffic accidents in the United States and determine what contributes to them and if there were factors that could predict the severity of accidents, with focus on how vehicle body types can determine the severity of accidents. Our team met frequently through the huddle feature on Slack to be able to provide live feedback on ideas and determine the direction and progress of the project in real time. We had continuously utilized Slack as our communication hub to update one another on the assigned areas for the project, but soon realized the delay in responses between one another was taking too much time. Once we introduced the meetings, our project pace increased substantially. The team overall was good at addressing any needs identified by other team members and getting the work done, which is what I would determine our teams' biggest strength. No one complained or whined-needs were identified, others volunteered to address those needs, and if anyone asked for help, other team members stepped up and provided it.

The machine learning model we used was a Classification model (Random Forest method) with encoded discrete variables. Using this, three variations of our model were created to understand the different accuracy under scenarios with different variables. These models are (1) core model (accident_ml.ipynb), our model with (2) no vehicle data (accident_no_veh_ml.ipynb), and our model using an imputed (3) binary variable representing serious and fatal accidents (accident_ml_binary.ipynb). All three models did not perform well. In terms of accuracy, the Binary Model performed best (accuracy = 0.88) compared to the Core Model (accuracy = 0.55) and the No Vehicle Data Model (accuracy = 0.41). The limited improvement of the Core Model over the No Vehicle Data Model suggests that vehicle data does add some predictive value in determining the overall severity of injuries. However, the core question of predicting severe injuries [Fatal(4) and Suspected Serious Injury(3)] requires a look deeper at Recall for these variables. Recall is a focus because the most important factor in predicting high severity injuries is avoiding false negatives (i.e. instances of a severe injury that are predicted not to be severe). In this area, all models performed poorly with recall scores for high severity values ranging from 0.11 to 0.32. Nothing conclusive could be determined from these findings.
